In this video I'll introduce you to the VSE for distributed resource scheduler or Diyar Wrath's feature
and de-stress is a really a fairly simple feature.
Now it takes some work to properly implement it but essentially what Deros provides us with is Wii motion
for load balancing purposes.
So for example let's say that we have the two ESX I hosts shown in the slide.
And in reality we would probably have more host than this.
But essentially what the press is going to do is this if ESX I host one starts to become overwhelmed.
We can use Wii motion to load balance and we can take this virtual machine and we can migrate it to
a different host with no downtime.
Right that's one of the main purposes of the motion is to allow us to load balance across.
ESX hosts but identifying when these emotions need to happen.
You know identifying when is an imbalance across multiple ESX hosts becomes increasingly difficult as
your environment gets larger and larger.
That's where Diyar RASC comes in.
The press will automatically Wii motion virtual machines from host to host for the purposes of load
balancing and Wii motion is really the bedrock of dress.
So we have to make sure that our venoms are Wii motion compatible.
So things like a local ISO images things like mismatched processors things like insufficient bandwidth
that our connection can all impose some limitations or compatibility issues when it comes to Wii motion.
And you'll notice here at the bottom of your screen it says CVM or knowledge base article 1 0 0 3 6
8 4 for common Wii motion areas that will walk you through a lot of the kind of the motion and compatibility
issues that you could potentially run into.
Now it's not really covered on the VM or certified associate exam.
So I don't spend a lot of time on it here.
But check out that knowledge base article or Also check out w w w dot trayner Testim com slash you to
me for information on where you can get additional resources
Deros comes in a few different flavors.
We've got manual mode right end with theorist's manual mode.
What you're looking to do is enable DRM so that it can load balance across a cluster but maybe you're
not entirely comfortable with allowing it to happen automatically.
Maybe you don't want virtual machines being Wii motion all over your cluster in the middle of the day.
Or maybe you're just not comfortable with the RSA enough to allow it to take over this point.
But in the future you might go with fully automated mode manual mode is a good starting point because
manual mode does not do any thing automatically.
What it does is it analyzes the performance of your cluster and it gives you recommendations and you
can choose whether or not you want to carry out those recommendations.
In partially automated mode this is all a little bit more automation than you get with manual mode.
Basically what it means is when you power on a virtual machine for the first time it's automatically
placed on the ideal host.
So dear rest we'll do a little bit of automation here basically just saying hey somebody just powered
on a new VM.
You don't have to pick which host to power it on.
Deros will automatically select the ideal host for you right now with fully automated mode.
This is like putting it on autopilot.
You're telling your cluster OK V Center is going to monitor this cluster and if a performance improvement
can be made by migrating a VM then the rest will automatically use the motion to migrate that VM to
the ideal host.
And so and with fully automated mode we are turning over control to dress and saying load balance costs
are automatically for us.
You know there's no there's no manual approval of these changes.
They just happen.
So you can choose any one of those three different automation levels.
You can also specify certain affinity or anti affinity rules like for example when I enable digraphs
on a cluster I have to think about which virtual machines should be separated.
And so for example here we see two domain controller virtual machines or domain controller run as running
on ESX 0 3 domain controller 2 is running on ESX 0 4.
But Diyar US has the keys now and it can move virtual machines wherever it sees fit.
And so if I just allow DNS to do whatever it wants it might potentially take domain controller one domain
controller two and put them on the same host for load balancing reasons.
And if that host were to fail I now have lost both of my domain controllers.
Now they may boot up on other hosts.
But for at least a little while my environment has no running domain controllers.
Well now with an anti affinity rule what the anti affinity rule will do is basically tell the IRS these
VMS need to run on different hosts.
And so that way de-risk will never automatically migrate these two VMS the same host.
It'll keep them separated for redundancy purposes.
And those are virtual machine affinity or anti affinity rules affinity rules keep VMS together.
Anti-fan the rules keep them apart.
So how does Wii center fit into this picture.
Well we'll use Wii Center with the Vee's for a web client to create a cluster and to enable de-stress
on it.
And once we have enabled the IRS and fully automated mode my virtual machines will start migrating around
on my ESX I hosts according to what de-risk thinks is correct.
So DNS uses Wii motion as its underlying mechanism and both the arrest and the motion require the center.
So the center fails D.R. S does not operate de-risk doesn't work without the center.
Neither does Wii motion.
OK so in review and this lesson we learned a little bit about DRM.
We learn how it can automatically Wii motion virtual machines across hosts for load balancing.
We learned about anti affinity roles and how they can be used to segregate redundant VAMC and keep them
on separate hosts.
Another important characteristic of DRM is that it makes it really easy to put a host in a maintenance
mode or do upgrades because we can use the press to automatically evacuate a host Dira supports a manual
partially automated and fully automated phones and it can automatically evacuate and ESX I host when
it's placed in maintenance mode to make things like Update Manager work better.
And as we learn more and work our way throughout this course you'll see that Deros and high availability
are two features that work really well together.
So we haven't really covered H.A. yet but as we go a little further in this course we'll learn about
how these two technologies work together.